# Class 42 Reading: Ethics in Tech

## Article #1 Ethics in the workplace - Microsoft Employees Protest Work with Ice, as Tech Industry Mobilizes Over Immigration

I chose this article because it still breaks my heart knowing that children were and are still separated from their families at the borders and treated as criminals. Gut wrenching even to think of the conditions that they were held in while either waiting to be deported or reunited with their families. As a mother to a 2 year old, I can empathize with these families. I would do anything in my power to keep my daughter safe or provide a better life for her. I believe most parents would. So as I continued with this article, it made me think that more than anything, tech should be used to enrich lives and make do good in the world. We all need more good in the world. This also has made me really question thinking of Microsoft as a top company to work for. I really loved their mission statement but it makes me think if they are really following it?? Personally, I'm on the team of abolishing ICE. And I wouldn't be able to work with a company that has contracts with them. ICE is in the boat of doing more harm than they do good. We've seen it uncovered in the previous administration. I would be though, proud of being on a team and working with the employees that have decided to take a stand when calling out these wrongs. That's something that I would be looking for of my fellow employees when joining a team.

## Article #2 Ethics in Technology - Big Data is our Generation's Civil Rights Issue, and we don't know it

This was a great article. And it really left me a little torn by the end. I want to first state though that it was really eye-opening with some of the "jaw dropping" examples as the article called them, to how the data is used as discrimination.  It could be that I was being ignorant to the fact, but for the most part, I just assumed the big data collected on me was to provide me targeted ads, or other marketing junk.  I would have never thought that my music choice could be used to try to determine my race and then discrimination against me. The crazy thing is I don't know how they'd be able to determine that because as a black woman, I listen to some really random music. Nothing that would be able to steretype me into one race or the other. I did really like the examples of good that big data does, like help detect disease or improve how students learn... So this is where I feel torn. Down with big data! Or...it's clearly a good when not abused. The Government does need to step in a little bit more though to regulate and make sure that civil liberities aren't being infringed upon.. but where we're at with the Government and trust is a little shakey so it would be interesting to see if that actually happens.
