# Class 16 Reading: AWS: Cloud Servers

## Review, Research, and Discussion

### Describe the Web Request Response Cycle

- user gives a client a URL, the client builds a request for information (or resources) to be generated by a server. When the server receives that request, it uses the information included in the request to build a response that contains the requested information. Once built, that response is sent back to the client in the requested format, to be rendered to the user.

### Explain what a server is as it relates to the WRRC

- A server is a piece of hardware or software that the Client can make a request to. Once it processes the request, it can then respond back to the client

### What does it mean to deploy an application?

- To publish it out there on the web/app store so any one can visit the application

## Document the following vocab words

- **Server:** A server is a piece of hardware or software that the Client can make a request to. Once it processes the request, it can then respond back to the client
- **Pub/Sub:** Pub/Sub is an asynchronous messaging service that decouples services that produce events from services that process events. *[source](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/overview)*
- **WRRC:** Web Request Response Cycle

## Preview

### Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

- I'm familiar with VMS and Virtual machines. I actually have a vm VirtualBox on my laptop that I use to run other programs on my machine

### Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?

- I'm hoping to learn how we'll be using this to tie into any of our labs going forward

### What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

- I'm also excited about the AWS portion of things
